# Project Summary Write-up
Througout this project there was one main challenge I faced. Getting a reliable way to authenticate with the Strava API was the biggest hurdle to overcome. Luckily I found a tuturial where someone used `Rocket` for their callback endpoint and included all the foundational code necessary to make that exchange happen. After the first check-in I realized I was going to quickly have a large mess of code if I didn't break things out into modules. I decided to create a stand alone `strava` crate within my project that was responsible for handling any exchanges between my app and the Strava API. The modules are broken up into pieces that represent main points of the Strava API docs and allows for easy expansion later. 

Understanding some of the data that was being returned and how I could process that was a bit of a challenge at first. Diving right into full fledged data streams from 6+ miles of running came with a lot of datapoints to try and understand. Looking back I wish I took a smaller example set from the API docs and started with that and moved on from there. Doing so would have made grasping the format much easier. Each datastream is specific to a type of data such as distance or time at the point. It was interesting how they included another stream that tracked whether the user was moving or not. Most of the datastreams would repeat the previous datapoint while moving was false but the time stream continued going resulting in an overall time since the activity was started and then with some calculations the moving time. 

Previously I started working on a similar personal project using `python` that connects to the Strava API that does simple things like return YTD summaries, weekly summaries, etc. That was my motivation for digging deeper into it with this rust project. While the initial setup was a big hump to get over in rust compared to previous implementation attempts, restructuring and expanding the code came a lot easier as well as data processing. I also understood a lot better the different parts of the authentication process as far as what is needed, where to use it, and how to execute all the steps. A lot of information is returned by the API calls placed but by using `structs` and `serde` getting only the information I cared about for the scope of this project simplified data processing. 

`Option` in rust allowed me to create good return types for all of my API calls. Either `Some` data was returned or there was `None`. Utilizing that in my return types saved me a lot of headache in error handling. Using `Result` return types would be better to allow the return of error messages but during testing and implementation API errors were typos in the url so I opted to use `Option`.